Next up we have a new loop called the for of loop so it's new to us in this course but it's also new
to JavaScript.
It's only been around a couple of years and unfortunately it is not supported in Internet Explorer.
If we go to MDA and scroll down to the bottom there's a whole line of red right there for Internet Explorer.
So again it's not a reason to ignore it or to stop using four of it's just something to be aware of.
It's not going to work automatically in every single browser but Chrome Firefox Safari they all support
it.
So for of is a really simple syntax and it addresses a common use case for loop where we want to iterate
over and editable and ignorable could be something like an array or a string.
There are other items that are ignorable in JavaScript.
That's something we'll talk about later as well.
I hate saying that but it's true.
For now we'll work with arrays and strings so the syntax is super clean.
Instead of creating a for loop a regular for loop where we generate a variable let's say I set to zero
we add one to AI each time we keep going while I is less than the array length instead of that we simply
write for and then some variable of ignorable so of array and that variable we assign will store each
individual element of the array or of the string.
So here's an example we have an array called Sub red it's just some strings of different red sub red
it's using a regular old for loop I would have to make a variable I while I is less than sub red it's
dot length I plus plus.
And then let's just cancel that log each individual element.
So that would be sub credits of I.
So we're only using I here to access each element.
It's kind of a lot of work.
It's not very attractive or clean to look at especially if we're only if we only care about soccer pop
heads cringe and books we don't care about the numbers we don't care about the indices we just need
them in order to access those elements.
So another alternative is the four up and that looks like this for light and then we decide on a variable
name and the this variable is going to represent each element.
So the name doesn't matter again just like I you could use I but that's generally not a good idea.
Most people when they see I are going to imagine or assume that it's an a number an index.
So I would go with something like sub or Sub Reddit or element E L I'll go with sub of subsets console
out log sub so we don't have to access the array using square brackets in a number sub is going to automatically
have each element it's stored in it each time through the loop if I run my code over here we loop twice
the first time using a for loop the second time using a for of loop hopefully you can see this is a
dramatic improvement it's a lot easier to read it kind of approximates English instead of this we're
generating these random or not random but these ugly indices and we're not using them in any way so
I much prefer 4 of which is what I was added in not because I prefer it but because it's such a common
scenario where you need to iterate over elements in an array or a string and you don't need those numbers
so why bother.
So this was added in as proposed and added in to the spec and four of we'll work on anything that is
ignorable in JavaScript.
Another example of an admirable is a string so we could do a for let character or char car of and then
some string.
How about hello everyone.
Actually you know that's.
Let's do let's do.
Cock a doodle do.
I don't know if that's how you spell that noise that sound and then let's just consider it log character
and let's do car char dot to uppercase.
So each time we're going to uppercase that character and then we go cock a doodle doo so we can iterate
over each character in a string each element in an array.
We don't need an indices or an index we don't need a number.
We don't have to do any of this logic.
All we do is say for each thing in separate it so let's sub of sub red let item what element.
Character let letter it's up to you.
It's a lot cleaner and a lot easier to work with.